Now we're going to bring
in the retired major general
and former head of Israeli
military intelligence, Amos Yadlin.
He's also joining us from Tel Aviv.
Welcome to the program.
You heard what I was asking
the IDF spokesperson.
And obviously it's very, very tough
to figure out how to avenge this
mass murder
while also, as he says,
respecting the laws of war.
And also, as President
Biden has said, that
that must happen in all your EU and U.N.
supporters as well.
So what do you think
Amos Yadlin might happen
in the coming up as this
massacres are avenged
When the defense minister, Yoav Gallant,
says they've removed all restraints
from their soldiers,
what what do you think that might mean
And, you know,
we have to remember
what happened on Saturday, more than 1200
Israeli citizens were killed brutally
by the terror organization called Hamas.
And, by the way,
by citizens from Gaza that follows them.
It was a poor dawn.
People were killed
in families, children, women,
and women were raped.
People were killed.
Babies were beheaded.
This is something
that you should not put behind you.
It's very much like September 11,
and it's very much like your war on ISIS.
And when the U.S.
attack Mosul or Vacca,
is there will some collateral damage.
And this is
what is going to happen to Gaza,
because Israel that helped
the people of Gaza
by letting them come to work in Israel
by letting them have the capacity money
were misled by
unbelievable brutal
government of Hamas.
And this government of Hamas
is going to pay
the way the Nazis paid in Europe.
The way I speak to them,
they're tied up, paid
when they attacked Americans.
So it weakens the rules of the game.
However, we will continue to fight
according to the international law,
as American forces,
if both according
to the international law
and the lesson of law,
we say
if you want to win the war,
you have to target your your enemy.
And there is the proportionality
and proportionality principle
that allow that
some collateral damage will be there
to achieve
that objective of winning the war.
And we are in war.
I know that.
And I
now want to ask you from your perspective
and from what
you know from your position
what is the actual objective?
I don't know whether an actual objective
has been announced by the prime minister,
other than,
you know,
obviously avenging what happened
and also decimating and changing
the rules of the game, decimating Hamas.
And as one IDF spokesman said today,
changing the rules of the day.
What exactly does that mean?
Does that mean,
you know, fighting
until there's no longer Hamas in charge
or anywhere able to exert any authority
in Gaza
Yeah.
Changing the paradigm.
The paradigm was we can live with Hamas.
It is a determined organization.
It's a
we may need to have a mini wall
around every four or five years,
but they will not go to a full scale war.
This paradigm was wrong.
We allowed them
to build up a military that threaten
Israel and destroy a
the whole region of Western the Negev.
This is not going to happen again.
So to your question, there is a objective
is to reduce Hamas, get the ability
to threaten Israel
to the minimum possible.
And this means
destroying their military power
and destroying the government's power.
So does that mean I won't. Yadlin.
Does that mean
does that mean that Israel.
Then what? Then what happens?
Does Israel is Israel
also counting in the possibility of
of going back in and ruling what happens
when that happens?
We will do
what is needed at that time.
We are still in the process of cleaning,
which the Negev will Hamas militants
and restore their defense.
But in the same time,
the Israeli Air Force is conducting
a very aggressive air bombing campaign
against any targets
that belongs to Hamas in Gaza.
And unlike the past,
we are not giving a specific warning.
In the past, we used to pick the phone
and call the police and send them please
evacuate your apartment.
Not anymore.
Anything that connected to Hamas,
a command post intelligence
for logistic production will be targeted
all over Gaza until we will reduce
the capability to threaten Israel.
Close to zero. Close to zero.
And I must tell you another thing.
We are living in the Middle East
as we.
So
when you
are weak and your enemy taking over.
It's a full blown
we need to show
to demonstrate to other enemies
like Hezbollah, like Syria, like Iran,
that anybody who is dreaming about
a duplicating what Hamas has done
will suffer some things
that they haven't dream about.
And Gaza is a way
to rebuild our deterrence.
So it's going to be very very aggressive
campaign.
I hear you loud and clear,
and I guess
everybody will be hearing you.
So I guess I want to ask you,
you're saying very clearly
to rebuild the deterrence
because I'm assuming you agree
what happened on Saturday knocked
the superiority of Israel on its head.
I mean, the idea that the military,
the intelligence, everybody was caught
so much by surprise, destroyed the
the decades
old myth of Israel's superiority.
I assume that's what you're saying.
And you need to regain that.
But how do you imagine
as head of former head
of military intelligence
that that happened in the first place?
I tell you again,
there will
be a real campaign against any target
belong to Hamas in August
and there are thousands of.
And then and then don't rule out
a military move on the globe.
Because I'm a big believer in airpower.
I'm a fighter pilot in my bedroom.
But there are places and missions
that cannot be done from there.
So I don't rule out the
in a
ground operation that once again
will go
to every place that we know that Hamas,
especially the leader,
that all the leaders, that all the air
they attack,
they will not be in Gaza
at the end of the day.
They will not be in the
most. Yadlin.
And I want to continue.
I
you to the north,
because what is happening
in Gaza may affect the north,
but we can speak about it tomorrow.
Yes.
We are keeping an eye on it, by the way.
And we did ask the IDF spokesman and.
And thank you very much indeed for your
for being with us tonight.